README.md, before:

# Nextcloud Desktop Client

The :computer: Nextcloud Desktop Client is a tool to synchronize files from Nextcloud Server
with your computer.

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://nextcloud.com/wp-content/themes/next/assets/img/clients/desktop/macsettings.png?x16328" alt="Desktop Client on Mac OS]">
</p>

## :blue_heart: :tada: Contributing

### :hammer_and_wrench: How to compile the desktop client

:building_construction: [System requirements](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki/System-requirements-for-compiling-the-desktop-client) includes OpenSSL 1.1.x, QtKeychain, Qt 5.x.x and zlib.

#### :memo: Step by step instructions

##### Clone the repo and create build directory
```
$ git clone git@github.com:nextcloud/desktop.git
$ cd desktop
$ mkdir build
```
##### Compile and install

##### Linux

```
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ make install
```

##### Windows

```
$ cmake -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ cmake --build . --config Debug --target install
```

##### Mac OS

```
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ make install
```

More detailed instructions can be found at the [Desktop Client Wiki](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki).

### :inbox_tray: Where to find binaries to download

#### :high_brightness: Daily builds

- Daily builds based on the latest master are available for Linux :penguin:, Mac, and Windows
[in the desktop/daily folder of our download server](https://download.nextcloud.com/desktop/daily).
For more info: [Wiki/Daily Builds](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki/Daily-Builds).

#### :rocket: Releases

- Refer to the [download page https://nextcloud.com/install/#install-clients](https://nextcloud.com/install/#install-clients)

### :bomb: Reporting issues

- If you find any bugs or have any suggestion for improvement, please
file an issue at https://github.com/nextcloud/client/issues. Do not
contact the authors directly by mail, as this increases the chance
of your report being lost. :boom:

### :smiley: :trophy: Pull requests

- If you created a patch :heart_eyes:, please submit a [Pull
Request](https://github.com/nextcloud/client/pulls).

## :satellite: Contact us

If you want to contact us, e.g. before starting a more complex feature, for questions :question:
you can join us at
[#nextcloud-client](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=nextcloud-client).

## :v: Code of conduct

The Nextcloud community has core values that are shared between all members during conferences, hackweeks and on all interactions in online platforms including [Github](https://github.com/nextcloud) and [Forums](https://help.nextcloud.com). If you contribute, participate or interact with this community, please respect [our shared values](https://nextcloud.com/code-of-conduct/). :relieved:

## :memo: Source code

The Nextcloud Desktop Client is developed in Git. Since Git makes it easy to
fork and improve the source code and to adapt it to your need, many copies
can be found on the Internet, in particular on GitHub. However, the
authoritative repository maintained by the developers is located at
https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop.

## :scroll: License

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
    or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
    for more details.

Commit message:

Adds link on how to create a pull request to the README.
Signed-off-by: Camila San <hello@camila.codes>

README.md, after:

# Nextcloud Desktop Client

The :computer: Nextcloud Desktop Client is a tool to synchronize files from Nextcloud Server
with your computer.

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://nextcloud.com/wp-content/themes/next/assets/img/clients/desktop/macsettings.png?x16328" alt="Desktop Client on Mac OS]">
</p>

## :blue_heart: :tada: Contributing

### :hammer_and_wrench: How to compile the desktop client

:building_construction: [System requirements](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki/System-requirements-for-compiling-the-desktop-client) includes OpenSSL 1.1.x, QtKeychain, Qt 5.x.x and zlib.

#### :memo: Step by step instructions

##### Clone the repo and create build directory
```
$ git clone git@github.com:nextcloud/desktop.git
$ cd desktop
$ mkdir build
```
##### Compile and install

##### Linux

```
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ make install
```

##### Windows

```
$ cmake -G "Visual Studio 15 2017 Win64" .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ cmake --build . --config Debug --target install
```

##### Mac OS

```
$ cmake .. -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=path-to-install-folder/ -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DNO_SHIBBOLETH=1
$ make install
```

More detailed instructions can be found at the [Desktop Client Wiki](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki).

### :inbox_tray: Where to find binaries to download

#### :high_brightness: Daily builds

- Daily builds based on the latest master are available for Linux :penguin:, Mac, and Windows
[in the desktop/daily folder of our download server](https://download.nextcloud.com/desktop/daily).
For more info: [Wiki/Daily Builds](https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop/wiki/Daily-Builds).

#### :rocket: Releases

- Refer to the [download page https://nextcloud.com/install/#install-clients](https://nextcloud.com/install/#install-clients)

### :bomb: Reporting issues

- If you find any bugs or have any suggestion for improvement, please
file an issue at https://github.com/nextcloud/client/issues. Do not
contact the authors directly by mail, as this increases the chance
of your report being lost. :boom:

### :smiley: :trophy: Pull requests

- If you created a patch :heart_eyes:, please submit a [Pull
Request](https://github.com/nextcloud/client/pulls).
- How to create a pull request? This guide will help you get started: [Opening a pull request](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#opening-a-pull-request) :heart:


## :satellite: Contact us

If you want to contact us, e.g. before starting a more complex feature, for questions :question:
you can join us at
[#nextcloud-client](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=nextcloud-client).

## :v: Code of conduct

The Nextcloud community has core values that are shared between all members during conferences, hackweeks and on all interactions in online platforms including [Github](https://github.com/nextcloud) and [Forums](https://help.nextcloud.com). If you contribute, participate or interact with this community, please respect [our shared values](https://nextcloud.com/code-of-conduct/). :relieved:

## :memo: Source code

The Nextcloud Desktop Client is developed in Git. Since Git makes it easy to
fork and improve the source code and to adapt it to your need, many copies
can be found on the Internet, in particular on GitHub. However, the
authoritative repository maintained by the developers is located at
https://github.com/nextcloud/desktop.

## :scroll: License

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY
    or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License
    for more details.
