doc/conffile.rst, before:

The ownCloud Client reads a configuration file.  You can locate this configuration file as follows:

On Linux distributions:
        ``$HOME/.local/share/data/ownCloud/owncloud.cfg``

On Microsoft Windows systems:
        ``%LOCALAPPDATA%\ownCloud\owncloud.cfg``

On MAC OS X systems:
        ``$HOME/Library/Application Support/ownCloud/owncloud.cfg``


The configuration file contains settings using the Microsoft Windows .ini file
format. You can overwrite changes using the ownCloud configuration dialog.

.. note:: Use caution when making changes to the ownCloud Client configuration
   file.  Incorrect settings can produce unintended results.

Some interesting values that can be set on the configuration file are:

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[ownCloud]`` section                                                                                                                                   |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``remotePollInterval``          | ``30000``     | Specifies the poll time for the remote repository in milliseconds.                                     |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``forceSyncInterval``           | ``7200000``   | The duration of no activity after which a synchronization run shall be triggered automatically.        |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``notificationRefreshInterval`` | ``300000``    | Specifies the default interval of checking for new server notifications in milliseconds.               |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[General]`` section                                                                                                                                    |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``chunkSize``                   | ``5242880``   | Specifies the chunk size of uploaded files in bytes.                                                   |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``promptDeleteAllFiles``        | ``true``      | If a UI prompt should ask for confirmation if it was detected that all files and folders were deleted. |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``maxLogLines``                 | ``20000``     | Specifies the maximum number of log lines displayed in the log window.                                 |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``timeout``                     | ``300``       | The timeout for network connections in seconds.                                                        |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[Proxy]`` section                                                                                                                                      |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``host``                        | ``127.0.0.1`` | The address of the proxy server.                                                                       |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``port``                        | ``8080``      | The port were the proxy is listening.                                                                  |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``type``                        | ``2``         | ``0`` for System Proxy.                                                                                |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``1`` for SOCKS5 Proxy.                                                                                |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``2`` for No Proxy.                                                                                    |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``3`` for HTTP(S) Proxy.                                                                               |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Local discovery: Use db instead of filesystem
We mostly trust the file watchers meaning that we don't re-scan the
local tree if we have done that recently and no file watcher events
have arrived. If the file watchers invalidate a subtree, we rescan
only that subtree.

Since we're not entirely sure the file watchers are reliable, we still
do full local discoveries regularly (1h by default). There is a config
file setting as well as an environment variable to control the interval.

doc/conffile.rst, after:

The ownCloud Client reads a configuration file.  You can locate this configuration file as follows:

On Linux distributions:
        ``$HOME/.local/share/data/ownCloud/owncloud.cfg``

On Microsoft Windows systems:
        ``%LOCALAPPDATA%\ownCloud\owncloud.cfg``

On MAC OS X systems:
        ``$HOME/Library/Application Support/ownCloud/owncloud.cfg``


The configuration file contains settings using the Microsoft Windows .ini file
format. You can overwrite changes using the ownCloud configuration dialog.

.. note:: Use caution when making changes to the ownCloud Client configuration
   file.  Incorrect settings can produce unintended results.

Some interesting values that can be set on the configuration file are:

+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[ownCloud]`` section                                                                                                                                   |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``remotePollInterval``          | ``30000``     | Specifies the poll time for the remote repository in milliseconds.                                     |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``forceSyncInterval``           | ``7200000``   | The duration of no activity after which a synchronization run shall be triggered automatically.        |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``fullLocalDiscoveryInterval``  | ``3600000``   | The interval after which the next synchronization will perform a full local discovery.                 |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``notificationRefreshInterval`` | ``300000``    | Specifies the default interval of checking for new server notifications in milliseconds.               |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[General]`` section                                                                                                                                    |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``chunkSize``                   | ``5242880``   | Specifies the chunk size of uploaded files in bytes.                                                   |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``promptDeleteAllFiles``        | ``true``      | If a UI prompt should ask for confirmation if it was detected that all files and folders were deleted. |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``maxLogLines``                 | ``20000``     | Specifies the maximum number of log lines displayed in the log window.                                 |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``timeout``                     | ``300``       | The timeout for network connections in seconds.                                                        |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``[Proxy]`` section                                                                                                                                      |
+=================================+===============+========================================================================================================+
| Variable                        | Default       | Meaning                                                                                                |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``host``                        | ``127.0.0.1`` | The address of the proxy server.                                                                       |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``port``                        | ``8080``      | The port were the proxy is listening.                                                                  |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``type``                        | ``2``         | ``0`` for System Proxy.                                                                                |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``1`` for SOCKS5 Proxy.                                                                                |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``2`` for No Proxy.                                                                                    |
+                                 +               +--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                 |               | ``3`` for HTTP(S) Proxy.                                                                               |
+---------------------------------+---------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
